docs/Writing_Code.md, before:

# Writing Code Guidelines

## 📝 HOW TO EXTEND THIS DOCUMENT
- Add rules under appropriate section (MUST/SHOULD)
- Format: `### RULE_NAME` → description → example
- Keep examples minimal but demonstrative
- Test that examples work before adding

---

## PROJECT CONTEXT
- **Python Version**: 3.12.x (requires 3.12+)
- **Principle**: Follow existing patterns. Propose improvements only when they clearly reduce complexity.
- **Scope**: All new/changed code

---

# MUST-FOLLOW RULES

### PYTHON_VERSION
Use Python 3.12+ modern syntax.
```python
# ✅ list[str], dict[str, int | None], match statements, built-in generics
# ❌ typing.List, typing.Optional, typing.Union
```

### SIMPLICITY_KISS
One clear responsibility per module/function.
```python
# ✅ calculate_session(timestamp) - single purpose
# ❌ process_and_store_and_notify_and_log(data) - too many responsibilities
```

### FOLLOW_SIMILAR_CODE
When implementing similar functionality, find and study the existing implementation. Follow its structure, patterns, and conventions—including variable naming, comments, and code style—but don't blindly copy code that doesn't apply to your use case.

### DRY_PRINCIPLE
Avoid duplication when abstraction is real. Avoid premature abstraction.

### NO_DEAD_CODE
Remove unused variables, imports, and functions. Implementations should only
declare the cursor parameters they actually support, and orchestrators must
invoke providers with the matching keyword arguments.

### LINTER_SUPPRESSION
Use `# noqa` comments sparingly and only when the linter is wrong. Always specify the rule code.
```python
# ✅ GOOD: Intentional unused import with reason
from datetime import timezone  # noqa: F401 - used by tests via monkeypatch

# ✅ GOOD: Long line that can't be broken
URL = "https://example.com/very/long/path/that/cannot/be/split"  # noqa: E501

# ❌ BAD: Suppressing without reason
from json import loads  # noqa

# ❌ BAD: Suppressing all rules
result = complex_function()  # noqa

# Default: Fix the code instead of suppressing warnings
```

Defensive checks for external contracts must log a warning or raise when triggered; otherwise remove them.

```python
# ✅ GOOD: Assert external API contract with visible signal
if buffer_time and published <= buffer_time:
    logger.warning(
        f"Provider returned item at/before cutoff {published} (filter gt {buffer_time})"
    )
    return None

# ❌ BAD: Silent redundant check (hidden anomaly)
if buffer_time and published <= buffer_time:
    return None
```

### VALIDATE_INPUTS
Validate at boundaries, fail fast on invalid state, make types explicit.
```python
def store_price(symbol: str, price: Decimal) -> None:
    if price <= 0:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid price {price} for {symbol}")
    # Use dataclasses/enums where helpful
```

### ERROR_HANDLING
Handle errors explicitly. Never swallow. Raise domain-specific exceptions.
```python
try:
    response = api_call(symbol)
except RequestException as e:
    logger.exception(f"Failed to fetch {symbol}")
    raise DataFetchError(f"Cannot retrieve {symbol}: {e}") from e
```

Fail‑fast for structural errors; degrade gracefully for malformed items; empty pages are valid termination.

```python
# Structural/contract errors → raise immediately
if not isinstance(response, dict):
    raise DataFetchError(f"Expected dict, got {type(response).__name__}")

results = response.get("results", [])
if not isinstance(results, list):
    raise DataFetchError("results must be list")

# Valid "no data" case → stop cleanly
if not results:
    return []

# Malformed items → skip with DEBUG log
for article in results:
    try:
        items.extend(parse_article(article))
    except Exception as exc:
        logger.debug(f"Skipping malformed item: {exc}")
```

### ERROR_HANDLING_EXPECTED_PARSING
Parsing helpers may return sentinel values (e.g., `None`) without logging when a comment documents the intentional fallthrough and the function contract defines the sentinel.
```python
def parse_retry_after(value: str | float | int | None) -> float | None:
    try:
        return max(0.0, float(value))
    except (TypeError, ValueError):
        # Intentional fallthrough: try HTTP-date parsing next.
        pass
    ...
    return None
```

### CLEANUP_SHUTDOWN
Before escalating from graceful shutdown to forceful termination, emit a `WARNING` with the cause.
```python
except Exception as exc:
    logger.warning(f"Graceful stop failed; forcing kill: {exc}")
    process.kill()
```

### PER_ITEM_CATCHES
Per-item parsing loops should catch explicit data issues (`ValueError`, `TypeError`, `KeyError`, `AttributeError`, and provider-domain errors) instead of `except Exception`.

### CAUSE_CHAINING
When wrapping exceptions, use `raise ... from exc` so upstream callers retain the original traceback.

### CENTRALIZE_CONCERNS
Centralize I/O, HTTP, retries/backoff, timezones, data normalization, logging.
**ALWAYS check `utils/` and `data/storage/storage_utils.py` for existing helpers before writing new code.**

Timestamp parsing: prefer shared helpers for RFC3339/ISO conversions; don’t duplicate parsing across providers.

```python
# ✅ GOOD: Centralize parsing
from utils.datetime_utils import parse_rfc3339
from data.storage.storage_utils import _datetime_to_iso
published = parse_rfc3339(ts_str)
published_iso = _datetime_to_iso(published)

# ❌ BAD: Repeating multi-branch parsing logic inline in providers
```

### EXTENSION_POINTS
Add only when 2+ real uses exist.
```python
# ✅ Add interface when FinnhubProvider AND AlphaVantageProvider need it
# ❌ Don't add "just in case"
```

Provider parameters and configurability: avoid premature config; use internal constants unless there’s demonstrated need.

```python
# ✅ Internal constants within provider package
NEWS_LIMIT = 100  # Shared constant imported by providers
NEWS_ORDER = "asc"

# ❌ Premature user-facing config for fixed behavior
class PolygonSettings:
    news_limit: int  # avoid until real need
    news_order: str  # avoid; asc is required for incremental
```

### IMPORTS_ABSOLUTE
Always absolute. Default to package facades for public APIs.
```python
# ✅ from data.storage import commit_llm_batch  # Public via facade
# ✅ from data.storage.db_context import _cursor_context  # Private from source
# ✅ from data.providers.finnhub import FinnhubNewsProvider  # Specific provider
# ❌ from .storage import anything  # Never relative
```

### IMPORT_PLACEMENT
All imports at module level (top of file). Function-level imports allowed ONLY for:
- Optional dependencies (with try/except)
- Breaking circular dependencies (document why inline)
```python
# DEFAULT: Everything at module level
import json
from data.storage import commit_llm_batch
from utils.http import get_json_with_retry
from data.models import NewsItem  # Even if used in one function

def process():
    # RARE EXCEPTION: Only if circular dependency
    # from data.models import NewsItem  # Document why!
    return NewsItem(...)
```

### FACADES_THIN
Keep `__init__.py` thin, side-effect free, explicit `__all__`.
- **Never re-export `_private` helpers** - import them from the defining module when needed
- Top of each package `__init__.py` should be a single short docstring line describing the package; avoid extra commentary comments.

### NAMING_CONVENTIONS
- Modules/functions: `snake_case`
- Classes: `PascalCase`  
- Constants: `UPPER_SNAKE`
- Private: `_leading_underscore`

### TYPE_ANNOTATIONS
Use built-in generics. Preserve type parameters when converting.
```python
def process(items: list[str]) -> dict[str, int | None]:
    ...
# Keep from typing: Mapping, Any, Callable, Awaitable, Iterator, TypeVar
```

### KEYWORD_ONLY_ARGS
Use `*` for clarity when needed.

### DATETIME_HANDLING
Always UTC timezone-aware. Never format timestamps by hand.
```python
# Flow: API input → normalize_to_utc() → _datetime_to_iso() → SQLite ISO+Z
from utils.datetime_utils import normalize_to_utc

class NewsItem:
    def __init__(self, published: datetime):
        self.published = normalize_to_utc(published)  # Always normalize
```

### MONEY_PRECISION
Use Decimal for money. Avoid binary floats.

### PERSISTENCE
Validate at write boundaries. Choose stable representations. Version schemas clearly.

### DATABASE_SQLITE
Always use `_cursor_context` for all operations.

### ASYNC_PATTERNS
Use async for I/O. Never block in async paths.
```python
async def fetch_all(symbols):
    # get_running_loop() fails fast if called outside async context (surfaces bugs)
    loop = asyncio.get_running_loop()  # NOT get_event_loop()
    tasks = [fetch_one(s) for s in symbols]
    return await asyncio.gather(*tasks)
```

### LOGGING_LAYERED
Module-level loggers with appropriate levels. Use f-strings.
- **Avoid duplicate logging across layers** - provider logs details, orchestrator only summarizes
```python
logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

# Provider layer:
logger.debug(f"Skipping item for {symbol}: {reason}")  # Expected drops
logger.warning(f"Failed to fetch {symbol}")  # Request failures
# Let exceptions propagate to orchestrators

# Orchestrator layer:
logger.info(f"Processed {count} items")  # Success summaries only!
logger.exception("Workflow failed")  # In except blocks for stack trace

# Use logger.exception() instead of logger.error(..., exc_info=True) for clarity
```

### DOCSTRINGS_REQUIRED
- Production code: every function/method SHOULD have a short, stable docstring unless it is trivial.
- Allowed to omit docstrings for: trivial dunders/constructors (`__init__`, `__enter__`, `__exit__`, etc.), obvious pass-through overrides (e.g., `validate_connection` that just defers), and simple property accessors that only return an attribute.
- Tests: module/class/test-case docstrings are fine; skip docstrings on helper fixtures, mocks, and tiny override stubs.
- When adding a docstring, keep it tight and “absolute” (what it does/returns), avoiding Args/Returns unless needed.
```python
def fetch_table_names(db_path: str) -> list[str]:
    """Return sorted SQLite table names for the given database path."""
    ...
```

# SHOULD-FOLLOW RULES
---

### COMMENT_STYLE
- Add docstrings/comments where they clarify intent or contracts; skip them for trivial constructors and obvious passthroughs.
- Docstrings SHOULD be minimal: a short, stable description of what the thing does and its contract.
- Docstrings MUST be "absolute": describe behavior and responsibilities, not how or why the code was written (no meta text like "follow Writing_Code.md" or "this was recently refactored").
- When you need more than a one-line summary, extra explanation MUST go under a short `"Notes:"` block (e.g., non-trivial contracts) instead of free-form paragraphs.
- Avoid long `Args`/`Returns` sections unless explicitly requested.
- Follow the surrounding file's commenting style so sections read consistently.

# CODE REVIEW CHECKLIST

### Correctness
- [ ] Timezones UTC-aware with proper units?
- [ ] Money using Decimal not float?
- [ ] Error paths covered with explicit handling?
- [ ] Retries/backoff where needed?

### Consistency
- [ ] Absolute imports following patterns?
- [ ] Using `_cursor_context` for SQLite?
- [ ] Following naming conventions?
- [ ] Matches surrounding style?

### Design
- [ ] Right abstraction level?
- [ ] Clean boundaries, no circular deps?
- [ ] No premature generalization?

### Security/Performance
- [ ] No secrets in code/logs?
- [ ] Input validation at boundaries?
- [ ] Batch external calls?
- [ ] Respect rate limits/timeouts?
- [ ] Avoid unnecessary allocations?

---

## Import Decision Tree
```
Public API? → facade import
Private (_)? → import from source module
Circular dep? → function-level with comment
Optional dep? → function-level with try/except
```

## Logging Levels
```
DEBUG: Expected failures (invalid data)
WARNING: Partial failures (request failed)
ERROR: Workflow failures  
EXCEPTION: Bugs (auto stack trace)
```

Commit message:

fix: harden datetime handling and social watermarks   - validate all datetime-like fields before utc normalization in core models   - switch symbol cursor and http helper params to generic mapping interfaces   - add reddit social watermark tests for per-symbol cursors and future clamping

docs/Writing_Code.md, after:

# Writing Code Guidelines

## 📝 HOW TO EXTEND THIS DOCUMENT
- Add rules under appropriate section (MUST/SHOULD)
- Format: `### RULE_NAME` → description → example
- Keep examples minimal but demonstrative
- Test that examples work before adding

---

## PROJECT CONTEXT
- **Python Version**: 3.12.x (requires 3.12+)
- **Principle**: Follow existing patterns. Propose improvements only when they clearly reduce complexity.
- **Scope**: All new/changed code

---

# MUST-FOLLOW RULES

### PYTHON_VERSION
Use Python 3.12+ modern syntax.
```python
# ✅ list[str], dict[str, int | None], match statements, built-in generics
# ❌ typing.List, typing.Optional, typing.Union
```

### SIMPLICITY_KISS
One clear responsibility per module/function.
```python
# ✅ calculate_session(timestamp) - single purpose
# ❌ process_and_store_and_notify_and_log(data) - too many responsibilities
```

### FOLLOW_SIMILAR_CODE
When implementing similar functionality, find and study the existing implementation. Follow its structure, patterns, and conventions—including variable naming, comments, and code style—but don't blindly copy code that doesn't apply to your use case.

### DRY_PRINCIPLE
Avoid duplication when abstraction is real. Avoid premature abstraction.

### NO_DEAD_CODE
Remove unused variables, imports, and functions. Implementations should only
declare the cursor parameters they actually support, and orchestrators must
invoke providers with the matching keyword arguments.

### LINTER_SUPPRESSION
Use `# noqa` comments sparingly and only when the linter is wrong. Always specify the rule code.
```python
# ✅ GOOD: Intentional unused import with reason
from datetime import timezone  # noqa: F401 - used by tests via monkeypatch

# ✅ GOOD: Long line that can't be broken
URL = "https://example.com/very/long/path/that/cannot/be/split"  # noqa: E501

# ❌ BAD: Suppressing without reason
from json import loads  # noqa

# ❌ BAD: Suppressing all rules
result = complex_function()  # noqa

# Default: Fix the code instead of suppressing warnings
```

Defensive checks for external contracts must log a warning or raise when triggered; otherwise remove them.

```python
# ✅ GOOD: Assert external API contract with visible signal
if buffer_time and published <= buffer_time:
    logger.warning(
        f"Provider returned item at/before cutoff {published} (filter gt {buffer_time})"
    )
    return None

# ❌ BAD: Silent redundant check (hidden anomaly)
if buffer_time and published <= buffer_time:
    return None
```

### VALIDATE_INPUTS
Validate at boundaries, fail fast on invalid state, make types explicit.
```python
def store_price(symbol: str, price: Decimal) -> None:
    if price <= 0:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid price {price} for {symbol}")
    # Use dataclasses/enums where helpful
```

### ERROR_HANDLING
Handle errors explicitly. Never swallow. Raise domain-specific exceptions.
```python
try:
    response = api_call(symbol)
except RequestException as e:
    logger.exception(f"Failed to fetch {symbol}")
    raise DataFetchError(f"Cannot retrieve {symbol}: {e}") from e
```

Fail‑fast for structural errors; degrade gracefully for malformed items; empty pages are valid termination.

```python
# Structural/contract errors → raise immediately
if not isinstance(response, dict):
    raise DataFetchError(f"Expected dict, got {type(response).__name__}")

results = response.get("results", [])
if not isinstance(results, list):
    raise DataFetchError("results must be list")

# Valid "no data" case → stop cleanly
if not results:
    return []

# Malformed items → skip with DEBUG log
for article in results:
    try:
        items.extend(parse_article(article))
    except Exception as exc:
        logger.debug(f"Skipping malformed item: {exc}")
```

### ERROR_HANDLING_EXPECTED_PARSING
Parsing helpers may return sentinel values (e.g., `None`) without logging when a comment documents the intentional fallthrough and the function contract defines the sentinel.
```python
def parse_retry_after(value: str | float | int | None) -> float | None:
    try:
        return max(0.0, float(value))
    except (TypeError, ValueError):
        # Intentional fallthrough: try HTTP-date parsing next.
        pass
    ...
    return None
```

### CLEANUP_SHUTDOWN
Before escalating from graceful shutdown to forceful termination, emit a `WARNING` with the cause.
```python
except Exception as exc:
    logger.warning(f"Graceful stop failed; forcing kill: {exc}")
    process.kill()
```

### PER_ITEM_CATCHES
Per-item parsing loops should catch explicit data issues (`ValueError`, `TypeError`, `KeyError`, `AttributeError`, and provider-domain errors) instead of `except Exception`.

### CAUSE_CHAINING
When wrapping exceptions, use `raise ... from exc` so upstream callers retain the original traceback.

### CENTRALIZE_CONCERNS
Centralize I/O, HTTP, retries/backoff, timezones, data normalization, logging.
**ALWAYS check `utils/` and `data/storage/storage_utils.py` for existing helpers before writing new code.**

Timestamp parsing: prefer shared helpers for RFC3339/ISO conversions; don’t duplicate parsing across providers.

```python
# ✅ GOOD: Centralize parsing
from utils.datetime_utils import parse_rfc3339
from data.storage.storage_utils import _datetime_to_iso
published = parse_rfc3339(ts_str)
published_iso = _datetime_to_iso(published)

# ❌ BAD: Repeating multi-branch parsing logic inline in providers
```

### EXTENSION_POINTS
Add only when 2+ real uses exist.
```python
# ✅ Add interface when FinnhubProvider AND AlphaVantageProvider need it
# ❌ Don't add "just in case"
```

Provider parameters and configurability: avoid premature config; use internal constants unless there’s demonstrated need.

```python
# ✅ Internal constants within provider package
NEWS_LIMIT = 100  # Shared constant imported by providers
NEWS_ORDER = "asc"

# ❌ Premature user-facing config for fixed behavior
class PolygonSettings:
    news_limit: int  # avoid until real need
    news_order: str  # avoid; asc is required for incremental
```

### IMPORTS_ABSOLUTE
Always absolute. Default to package facades for public APIs.
```python
# ✅ from data.storage import commit_llm_batch  # Public via facade
# ✅ from data.storage.db_context import _cursor_context  # Private from source
# ✅ from data.providers.finnhub import FinnhubNewsProvider  # Specific provider
# ❌ from .storage import anything  # Never relative
```

### IMPORT_PLACEMENT
All imports at module level (top of file). Function-level imports allowed ONLY for:
- Optional dependencies (with try/except)
- Breaking circular dependencies (document why inline)
```python
# DEFAULT: Everything at module level
import json
from data.storage import commit_llm_batch
from utils.http import get_json_with_retry
from data.models import NewsItem  # Even if used in one function

def process():
    # RARE EXCEPTION: Only if circular dependency
    # from data.models import NewsItem  # Document why!
    return NewsItem(...)
```

### FACADES_THIN
Keep `__init__.py` thin, side-effect free, explicit `__all__`.
- **Never re-export `_private` helpers** - import them from the defining module when needed
- Top of each package `__init__.py` should be a single short docstring line describing the package; avoid extra commentary comments.

### NAMING_CONVENTIONS
- Modules/functions: `snake_case`
- Classes: `PascalCase`  
- Constants: `UPPER_SNAKE`
- Private: `_leading_underscore`

### TYPE_ANNOTATIONS
Use built-in generics. Preserve type parameters when converting.
```python
def process(items: list[str]) -> dict[str, int | None]:
    ...
# Keep from typing: Mapping, Any, Callable, Awaitable, Iterator, TypeVar
```

### MAPPING_VS_DICT
Use `Mapping` for read-only inputs; `dict` for mutable locals/returns.

### KEYWORD_ONLY_ARGS
Use `*` for clarity when needed.

### DATETIME_HANDLING
Always UTC timezone-aware. Never format timestamps by hand.
```python
# Flow: API input → normalize_to_utc() → _datetime_to_iso() → SQLite ISO+Z
from utils.datetime_utils import normalize_to_utc

class NewsItem:
    def __init__(self, published: datetime):
        self.published = normalize_to_utc(published)  # Always normalize
```

### MONEY_PRECISION
Use Decimal for money. Avoid binary floats.

### PERSISTENCE
Validate at write boundaries. Choose stable representations. Version schemas clearly.

### DATABASE_SQLITE
Always use `_cursor_context` for all operations.

### ASYNC_PATTERNS
Use async for I/O. Never block in async paths.
```python
async def fetch_all(symbols):
    # get_running_loop() fails fast if called outside async context (surfaces bugs)
    loop = asyncio.get_running_loop()  # NOT get_event_loop()
    tasks = [fetch_one(s) for s in symbols]
    return await asyncio.gather(*tasks)
```

### LOGGING_LAYERED
Module-level loggers with appropriate levels. Use f-strings.
- **Avoid duplicate logging across layers** - provider logs details, orchestrator only summarizes
```python
logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)

# Provider layer:
logger.debug(f"Skipping item for {symbol}: {reason}")  # Expected drops
logger.warning(f"Failed to fetch {symbol}")  # Request failures
# Let exceptions propagate to orchestrators

# Orchestrator layer:
logger.info(f"Processed {count} items")  # Success summaries only!
logger.exception("Workflow failed")  # In except blocks for stack trace

# Use logger.exception() instead of logger.error(..., exc_info=True) for clarity
```

### DOCSTRINGS_REQUIRED
- Production code: every function/method SHOULD have a short, stable docstring unless it is trivial.
- Allowed to omit docstrings for: trivial dunders/constructors (`__init__`, `__enter__`, `__exit__`, etc.), obvious pass-through overrides (e.g., `validate_connection` that just defers), and simple property accessors that only return an attribute.
- Tests: module/class/test-case docstrings are fine; skip docstrings on helper fixtures, mocks, and tiny override stubs.
- When adding a docstring, keep it tight and “absolute” (what it does/returns), avoiding Args/Returns unless needed.
```python
def fetch_table_names(db_path: str) -> list[str]:
    """Return sorted SQLite table names for the given database path."""
    ...
```

# SHOULD-FOLLOW RULES
---

### COMMENT_STYLE
- Add docstrings/comments where they clarify intent or contracts; skip them for trivial constructors and obvious passthroughs.
- Docstrings SHOULD be minimal: a short, stable description of what the thing does and its contract.
- Docstrings MUST be "absolute": describe behavior and responsibilities, not how or why the code was written (no meta text like "follow Writing_Code.md" or "this was recently refactored").
- When you need more than a one-line summary, extra explanation MUST go under a short `"Notes:"` block (e.g., non-trivial contracts) instead of free-form paragraphs.
- Avoid long `Args`/`Returns` sections unless explicitly requested.
- Follow the surrounding file's commenting style so sections read consistently.

# CODE REVIEW CHECKLIST

### Correctness
- [ ] Timezones UTC-aware with proper units?
- [ ] Money using Decimal not float?
- [ ] Error paths covered with explicit handling?
- [ ] Retries/backoff where needed?

### Consistency
- [ ] Absolute imports following patterns?
- [ ] Using `_cursor_context` for SQLite?
- [ ] Following naming conventions?
- [ ] Matches surrounding style?

### Design
- [ ] Right abstraction level?
- [ ] Clean boundaries, no circular deps?
- [ ] No premature generalization?

### Security/Performance
- [ ] No secrets in code/logs?
- [ ] Input validation at boundaries?
- [ ] Batch external calls?
- [ ] Respect rate limits/timeouts?
- [ ] Avoid unnecessary allocations?

---

## Import Decision Tree
```
Public API? → facade import
Private (_)? → import from source module
Circular dep? → function-level with comment
Optional dep? → function-level with try/except
```

## Logging Levels
```
DEBUG: Expected failures (invalid data)
WARNING: Partial failures (request failed)
ERROR: Workflow failures  
EXCEPTION: Bugs (auto stack trace)
```
